You know how most insurers either focus
on affordable pricing or premium
features but rarely deliver both
effectively? ICA Lum breaks that pattern
entirely. From unlimited summon insured
options to innovative maternity coverage
for surrogate mothers, they've built a
health insurance portfolio that adapts
to real world healthcare needs. And with
over two decades of experience backing
those innovations, that alone makes them
one of the top contenders in health
insurance space. Hello folks, I'm
Shashank. Welcome to DTO insurance.
We're backed by Zeroda and have helped
over 8 lakh Indians navigate the maze of
insurance with honest and unbiased
advice. If you'd like help understanding
which insurer or plan works for your
family, book a free call with our
advisers using the link in the
description. No spam, no pushy calls,
just clear answers from people who know
this stuff inside out. Again, the link
is in the description. In this video,
we're going to break down ICICI Lombard
General Insurance as a health insurer in
complete detail. We'll cover their four
major health insurance plans. Elevate,
Max Protect Premium, Activate Booster
Super Topup, and Health Advantage Apex
Plus. We'll walk you through the
company's performance metrics, track
record, each plan's basic features,
waiting periods, unique benefits,
available add-ons, and how they stack up
against other leading players. By the
end of this video, you'll be able to
make a decision about whether ICICI
Lombard aligns with your insurance
needs, or you can always talk to experts
at DTO. All right, let's begin. ICICI
Lombard General Insurance is one of
India's leading private sector general
insurance companies that was established
as a joint venture between ICICI Bank
and Fairfax Financial Holdings from
Canada. With over 24 years of
experience, they became the first
general insurance company in India to be
publicly listed in 2017. Trading at a
market cap of over 85,000 cr rupees.
Known for their customer- ccentric
approach, they emphasize innovation
through digital platforms and AIdriven
solutions. When we talk performance
metrics, here's how ICIC Lombard
compares with other major players. Their
average CSR over the last 3 years stands
at 85%. This does have room for
improvement compared to leaders like
HDFC Ergo at 98 and Adita at 95. Their
incurred claims ratio is 82.62% 62%
indicating balanced risk management.
They receive nine complaints per 10,000
claims settled, which is reasonable and
better than players like Star and Care.
Their cashless network includes over
10,800 hospitals and they've maintained
consistent business volumes with average
gross written premiums at 4,814
cr rupees again over the last 3 years.
Now let's break down their health
insurance portfolio. Starting with the
plan conditions and basic features.
Let's start with ICIL Lombardate plan.
This is positioned as their flagship
comprehensive plan with standard summons
options plus unlimited coverage
availability. Basic policy features
include no co-ayments and no deceased by
sub limits. Room rent is restrict to
single private room though this can be
upgraded through an add-on.
Prehospization coverage extends to 90
days and post hospitalization to 180
days. Daycare and modern treatments are
covered up to the summons. Tommyillery
and home healthcare are also covered up
to summons. Irish treatments are covered
up to summons as well. You get 20%
increase up to 100% of base summons
irrespective of claims made under their
bonus structure. But additionally, they
do offer a power booster add-on for
unlimited bonus accumulation. The
resurrection type is unlimited
restoration for any illnesses upon
partial or complete exhaustion of some
short. Waiting periods include 30 days
initial, 2 years for specific illnesses
with 90 days for diabetes, hypertension
and cardiac conditions if not diagnosed
as PEDs and 3 years for peeds. Now some
unique features include surrogate mother
and usite donor coverage up to 5 lakh
rupees. The jump start benefit that
reduces PD waiting periods for
conditions like diabetes, hypertension
and asthma from three years to just 30
days. Maternity cover add-on up to 10%
of base summon insured with maximum one
lakh cap. And infinite care covering one
hospitalization during policy lifetime
without annual sumins insured limits.
Now let's take a look at some important
add-ons. PD waiting period reduction
from 36 months to 24 or 12 months. Claim
protector for excluded items like
syringes and PP kits. Power booster
increasing base uninsured by 100%
annually with no cap. Maternity waiting
period reduction from 2 years to 1 year.
Room modifier to upgrade accommodation.
Specific illness waiting period
reduction. Durable equipment cover up to
5 lakh rupees. Annual health checkup
benefit and inflation protector for
automatic coverage increases. Now coming
to discounts, there's up to 15% credit
score based discount. There's also early
renewal discount of 2.5% for policy
renewed before 30 days. Multipay
discount for two pay is 10% and on
second year premiums. For 3ay it's 10%
discount on again second year premiums
plus 15% discount on thirdyear premiums.
Based on our analysis, Elevate stands
out as their flagship offering with
comprehensive features and innovative
benefits. Though the single private room
restriction in the base plan might
require add-ons for some users. Next
plan is max protect premium. This plan
offers high value coverage with summon
insurance options ranging from 1 cr to
10 cr rupees plus an option for
unlimited summons short as well. Basic
policy features include zone based
co-ayment across four zones zone A, B, C
and D which can impact out-of- pocket
expenses. There are no disease by sub
limits though modern treatments are
covered up to 1 cr rupees. Room rent
restrictions allow all rooms except
suites. Prehospization coverage is 60
days and post hospitalization 180 days.
Daycare and modern treatments are
covered up to summon shot. Doicillary
and home treatments are covered up to
summon shot. Same with IU treatments and
the bonus structure offers 20% per year
up to 100% of summon shot upon no
claims. Restoration type here is
unlimited for any illness with 45day
cooling period for same ailments. Let's
take a look at waiting periods. It has a
standard 30-day initial buffer, two
years for specific illnesses and three
years for PDS. Some of the unique
features include unlimited some insured
availability, home care treatment
coverage up to 1 lak rupees on cashless
basis, claim protector for consumables
up to some insured and worldwide
coverage for planned and emergency
treatments up to 3 cr rupees with
specific travel limitations. The main
add-on though that is available is the
PD waiting period reduction from 36
months to 24 months. Coming to
discounts, it's majorly for multi-pay.
For 2 pay, 10% discount on second year
premium. For 3ay, 10% discount on second
year premiums, plus 15% discount on
third-year premiums. While this plan is
comprehensive, the zonebased co-ayment
structure can be limiting compared to
Elevate's no co-ayment approach. Though
the unlimited summons option provides
valuable flexibility for high coverage
needs. Next up is their super topup
variant called the activate booster
plan. And this comes with deductible
options ranging from 3 lakh res to 20
lak and has some insured variants
starting from 10 lak all the way up to 3
cr. Basic policy features include no
co-ayment, no deceased sub limit. There
is a room rent limit though that is
limited to single private AC room but
this is upgradeable through add-ons. It
offers extended prehospization coverage
of 90 days and post hospitalization of
180 days. Daycare, modern treatments,
domicillary and aush are all covered up
till summon shot. Since this is a super
topup plan, there is no bonus structure
or restoration benefit. Now waiting
periods include the initial 30 days
buffer, 2 years for specific illnesses
with 90 days for diabetes, hypertension
and cardiac conditions unless PD and 3
years for PEDs. Some notable add-ons
here include jumpstart that reduces
speedy waiting period from 3 years to
just 30 days for listed conditions.
There's also claim protector for
excluded items, inflation protector for
annual coverage increases, and PD
waiting period reduction to 24 or 12
months, annual health checkup benefit,
room modifier with multiple upgrade
options and guaranteed deductible
reduction by 10% at each renewal up to
50% maximum reduction. On the discounts
front, it has a multi-ay discount
structure. For 2 pay, 10% on second year
premiums. For 3ay, 10% discount on
secondyear premiums plus 15% on
thirdyear premiums. There's also credit
score based discount that is up to 15%.
Look, this plan offers unique super
topup features with innovative add-ons
rarely seen in this category,
particularly the higher pre and post
hospitalization coverage and guaranteed
deductible reduction. Let's now look at
their final plan that is health
advantage apex plus plan. This provides
some insured options from 5 lakh rupees
to 3 cr rupes with varying room rent
policies based on coverage amount. Basic
policy features include no co-ayment and
no deceased wise submits. Room rent as
mentioned is restricted to single
private room for some insured up to 20
lakhs with no capping for higher sumins
inured amounts. Prehospization 60 days,
post hospitalization is 180 days.
Daycare, modern treatments, domillary
and aush are all covered up till some
short. The bonus structure offers 20% of
some insured annually up to 100% max
with no reduction for claims.
Restoration type here is unlimited for
any illnesses with once only restoration
for five lakhs and 7 and 1/2 lakh
policies and 45 days cooling period for
the same ailments. Waiting periods
include 30 days initial 2ear specific
illness with 90 days for diabetes,
hypertension and cardiac conditions
unless PED and notably a shorter 2-year
waiting period for pedes. Unique
features include surrogate mother
coverage up to five lakh rupees for
three-year policy terms donor coverage,
home care treatment up to 5% of some
insured with maximum 1 lakh cap, animal
bite vaccination coverage up to 10,000
rupees and worldwide coverage for some
insured 25 lakh rupees and above with
travel limitations. Some add-ons include
comprehensive maternity benefits
covering delivery complications and
newborn care with vaccination coverage,
claim protector for excluded items, some
insure protector for inflation
adjustments and boot cover for OPD
consultations and pharmacy coverage. It
has some different discount options.
Conjugate numokcoal vaccine or its
equivalent vaccine it gives you 2.5%
discount. Multi-ay discount for two pay
it's 10% discount on secondyear
premiums. for three pay again 10% on
secondyear premiums and finally 15%
discount on thirdyear premiums. There's
also credit score based discount up to
15%. Look this was their previous
flagship plan before elevate came in and
this offered comprehensive features
through slightly modified versions of
benefits and these are now available in
the elevate plan. So if you're trying to
understand which ICIC lumbard plan suits
your family specific health profile and
coverage needs, book a free call with
our advisers at Ditto. They can help you
navigate the different summon shot
options and add-on combinations. The
link is in the description. Now, let's
give you DTO's perspective on IC lumbar
based on DTO's cut. Here's what we
appreciate about their approach. The
innovation in product features is
genuinely impressive. From unlimited
summon shot options to surrogate mother
coverage and the jump start add-on for
rapid PD coverage, their comprehensive
add-on ecosystem allows significant
customization based on individual needs
and life stages. The inclusion of
worldwide coverage across multiple plans
address growing medical tourism trends.
Their focus on reducing waiting periods
through various add-ons make plans
accessible for people with peeds. The
elevate plan particularly stands out
with its combination of unlimited
restoration, innovative maternity
benefits and flexible add-on structure
where ICI Lombard has some areas of
consideration. Now there are some areas
of consideration for ICIC Lombard. The
CSR at 85% lags behind industry leaders
which is crucial for claim reliability.
There is zonebased co-ayment in max
protect and this can create unexpected
out-of-pocket expenses depending on
location. The complexity of their
portfolio with multiple plans and
numerous add-ons might make decision-m
challenging for some customers. The room
rent restrictions in multiple plans
often require additional add-ons to
upgrade and this might increase overall
premium costs. Some unique features like
surrogate coverage may not be relevant
for all customer segments yet may impact
the pricing. So folks, that's a
comprehensive overview of ISIS Lombard's
health insurance portfolio and
performance. Remember, no plan is
universally the best. What works for you
depends on your needs. If you're looking
to understand how their plans compare
with other insurers or want to evaluate
which of their products align with your
requirements, book a free consultation
with our team at DTO. The link is in the
description. We want to know how your
experience has been with ICS Lombard's
claim process or if there are any
specific features like unlimited
coverage or maternity benefits that
interest you for your health insurance
planning. Share your thoughts in the
comments and we'd love to hear from you.
And if this insurer breakdown was
helpful, it's the simplest way to
support DTO's initiative to spread
financial and insurance literacy among
all Indians. I'll see you in the next
one. Until then, happy insurance
hunting.